Cloud Computing:

Question 1: How would you architect a framework for sharing large files (10Gb-25Gb) on the cloud with access controls at the file level? We want to share the same file with multiple users without making a copy. 
            The users should be able to have access to the data on any cloud platform to run bioinformatics analysis pipelines. The users can run any cloud service, there is no restriction. 
            The framework’s responsibility is only to make data accessible with access controls.

Answer: First choose a cloud platform that has a storage provider that supports large file sizes and access control mechanisms for example like 
        AWS S3, Microsoft Azure Blob Storage, Google Cloud Storage etc.
        
        And then because we are sharing large files, so files need to be splited into smaller segments. Like 50MB, 100 MB, 1GB etc. File segmentation will 
        allow distributing the data more efficiently and less processing time during downloads and analysis.
        
        And then apply access control mechanism using the authentication and authorization services provided by the cloud platform to control user permissions at the file level. 
        Like creating user accounts, and assigning different roles and granting different permissions to users. 
        And associating those permissions with the file segments.

        And then develop an API that will allow users to send requests to get access to the file segments and retrieving them based on the users's access rights and permissions. 
        The API will be responsible for handling user authentication and authorization and also retrieving and reassembling the file segments for the users as needed. 
        And it will also provide responses when access is denied for some users. 
        And then deploy and integrate the API in the cloud, make it scalable and also ensure that the API is publicly accessible over the internet 
        by configuring firewalls, network settings, security groups to allow inbound connections to the API endpoints. So users can use the API to 
        retrieve the data and run their bioinformatics analysis pipelines on any cloud platforms.

        And then for security reasons, implement some security measures such as encrypting the data, using secure communication protocols like SSL/TLS etc.
        And also implement monitering and logging system to track user activities, system performances etc. to protect all the data as well as the integrity of the API.



Question 2: Evaluate the benefits and limitations of using containerization and container orchestration technologies, 
            such as Docker and Kubernetes, for deploying and managing bioinformatics HPC workloads in the cloud.


Answer: Benefits: 
        1. Containers like docker containers are very portable, they don't depend on specific platforms, which means they can be deployed on any cloud platform,
        so that it is very easy to move containerized bioinformatics workloads between different cloud environments.

        2. Containers are lightweight and isolated, they have everything that are needed encapsulated in them, for example, the entire application and all its libraries 
        and dependencies. And also since the containers are isolated it ensures the reproducibility of the bioinformatics workloads, making it easier 
        to share and reproduce across different platforms.
        
        3. Container images have version control, allowing easy rollbacks to previous versions of the same pipeline if needed.

        4. Containers are very lightweight and they all share the host operating system kernel if they are on the same machine, 
        this allows more bioinformatics workloads on a single virtual machine rather than running more virtual machines 
        to accommodate large workload needs, resulting in saving resource consumption and cost.
        
        5. Container orchestration tools like Kubernetes enable auto-scaling and load balancing of bioinformatics workloads 
        by distributing the containers across multiple nodes in a cluster. It can manage large-scale computations very efficiently,
        guarantee the optimal utilization of cloud resources and can handle sudden surges in workload demands very well.
        
        6. Also Kubernetes can automatically restart failed containers or move them to healthy nodes, which can minimize downtime.
        Making sure that bioinformatics workloads are resilient to failures.
        
        7. Kubernetes has advanced orchestration capabilities. It automates the scaling, scheduling, and monitoring of containers, simplifying the management 
        of complex distributed systems. Allowing seamless deployment and management of containerized bioinformatics workloads.

        Limitations:
        1. Containers are ephemeral and data lasts for a short time in the container Additionally, storing large amount of data in the container
        can be very inefficient. So in order to handle and store large amount of bioinformatics datasets, some external data storage services need to be utilized.

        2. Optimizing networking and data transfer within a containerized environment can be very challenging, especially when scaling workloads 
        across multiple nodes or spanning across different cloud regions. This can be a problem because bioinformatics workloads usually involve 
        large data transfers and complex network interactions between containers.

        3. Container orchestration tools like Kubernetes, usually have a very complex architecture, 
        it contains lots of different components so it takes time to learn, and adapt so it can be very challenging to set up a cluster that is ready for production.
        
        4. Because Kubernetes has a very complex architecture, so running a cluster for bioinformatics workloads requires a large amount of 
        resources(e.g. multiple virtual machines) in the cloud, which may result in addional costs.
        
        
        
        



